---
layout: post
title: Habit
---

How I started working out and made it as a habit

#### 1. Decisioning

Being a software engineer, I hardly have any physical work which made me weak
so, 2015 **I decided to join gym**, for the almost entire year I didn’t join but
I pushed myself to join the gym on 31st December 2015 :D

#### 2. Getting started — Coaches helps to keep you on track

I didn’t really have a plan about my goal and I didn’t have experience working
out. The people at the gym recommend me to for a personal trainer which was
really expensive. For a week **I workout without anyone’s help** and soon I
understood this is boring task and I won’t be able to continue this way which
made me to go for a personal trainer. **My trainer really helped me to
understand the importance of exercise** and I understood lots more about working
out and building a healthy lifestyle. He helped for 9 months and I feel this is
the **most valuable thing** I have ever done in my life.

#### 3. The Bigger Picture — Routine was the goal, it was not biceps

After working out for 6 months I became **stronger, healthier and happier**. I
Understood more about my body, my posture problems and had a better
understanding what I wanted. I started giving more importance to my diet. After
almost a year, working out **became my routine** and missing it a day made me
gloomy for the complete day and it even effect my sleep. Now I **enjoy working
out and made it my habit.**

### If you also want to add work out as habit, This is my recommendation.

1. Set a date. Join the gym **TODAY**.
2. Take a **personal trainer** for 9 months.
3. **Force** yourself to go to gym every day and keep in mind your body will reward you. 
4. Tada **Habit** created!

* [Health](https://medium.com/tag/health?source=post)
* [Fitness](https://medium.com/tag/fitness?source=post)
* [Life Learning](https://medium.com/tag/life-learning?source=post)
